He said to me, "What makes you think you
can be the CEO of Clear Art?" In my
mind, I was like, "Good question." I
leaned over the table and I said,
"Because I am a complete [__]
animal."
So that was that meeting
and he still said no.
[Music]
So Karen, I think a great place to begin
is to just talk a little bit about clear
first. We're going to rewind the clock
in a few minutes and go back to the
beginning and tell your entire story.
Everyone knows Clear because they've
experienced it in the airport or at a
stadium or something else. I more want
to know uh the version of Clear that
people might not appreciate the business
and the product having just experienced
it that way. Um so maybe let us in on a
little bit of like the surprising
elements of Clear the Business and the
product that get you excited about it
today and in the future. So when we
started Clear 15 years ago, what we said
is today it's a travel ccentric company
and tomorrow it's the de facto secure
identity platform and leisure, access,
commerce. We didn't say healthcare. So a
kind of ballsy vision um but one that
really came from my experience on Wall
Street of watching products become
platforms and the concept of identity to
make experiences safer and easier
physically and digitally was the
foundation of clear. And so again, this
concept of enroll once, use everywhere.
As a woman, I'm like always digging
through bags for all these plastic cards
to prove who I am and what I have access
to. And I think that's ridiculous
because nobody ever really looks and
it's incredibly clunky. It's incredibly
expensive and inefficient, not secure
and a bad experience. So that is the
foundation of Clear and we're really at
the earliest stages. So when you think
of I think uh the magic or the secret
opportunity, it's that over 30 million
people today have enrolled uh and again
I what I love about that is it's opt-in.
It's privacy protected. It's data
secure. Um we will not sell or share
your data. We're here to deliver you
amazing experiences and we're here to
deliver our partners enhanced security
um a reduced fraud which has become a
big problem. So I think that the basic
secret to clear is that identity is
foundational across so many industries
and people don't think of identity as
the problem. They think of fraud or
compliance or frictionless experience
right or whipping out cards or insider
risk. Now, there's actually a story
today in the Wall Street Journal about
North Koreans infiltrating workforces,
which is a real problem. That's all
identity and uh bringing it to life both
um with the government and a public
private partnership and airports and in
other sectors uh like health care and
online where anonymity rules and that
creates all sorts of problems uh or to
secure workforces I think is the secret
and the opportunity at clear. What did
you learn about the product to platform
uh switch or flip that happens for in
companies from your Wall Street days?
Yeah, so I invested in a broad spectrum
of companies. Started out in risk
arbitrage and then went on to asset
management and hedge funds. And in 2002,
we started Arians Capital, which stood
for art and science, which is my view of
investing. It's highly quantitative and
highly qualitative, art and science. Uh,
and so we had the good fortune, although
every day didn't necessarily feel that
way, of investing in Apple, Amazon, and
Priceeline in 2002. And when you looked
at Apple, u, they used to have signs in
their boardroom that said five down and
95 to go. And that was their market
share. They had candy colored Macs and
this iPod with a big, you know, white
uh, dial in the middle that people
thought Zoom might, you know, ultimately
crush. Or you thought about Amazon,
which was books and books, music, and
video. then a few more categories, but
lots of people thought they were going
to go out of business. He was on the
cover of Time magazine, right? I think
it was Amazon Bust or something of that
nature. Uh, and then Priceel Line was
opaque travel
and almost went bankrupt after 911. And
those were all products that you watched
become platforms, right? Priceeline
turned into bookings and a global OTAA
offering you a lot more than Opaque
Travel and Apple and Amazon speak for
themselves. And I saw unconventional
leaders as sort of the old GE leadership
kind of went. Um unconventional leaders
delight consumers, innovate, do really
smart acquisitions and capital
allocation and create these platforms of
which they could build multiple
verticals on top of. And so when I
looked at Clear, which was bankrupt, I
saw the same thing. I saw this identity
platform. Travel was where it died and
where we brought it back. And I thought
where security, identity, and customer
experience absolutely collided, but that
you could use it in so many other places
and connect you to all the things that
make you you. Identity is completely
contextual. I'm always Karen, but when I
check in at the doctor's office, I'm
Karen with United Health with an ex
copay with a medical record that, by the
way, I should own and have access to and
be able to share anywhere I want. I go
into a building, I'm Karen. I'm an
employee and I have access to the 10th
floor. or I'm Karen and I'm a visitor
and I'm going to the 48th floor today
from noon to 3, but I'm always Karen but
I'm having to do all these things. My
favorite is when they take your picture,
they give you a sticker like this is
useless. Um, so this concept of a secure
identity platform was definitively
modeled off what I experienced as an
investor.
The old Bill Gates line definition of
platform was this idea that more
economic value was created on top of the
platform than was captured by it. And at
that point is when you became a real
proper platform or something like this.
And it's evolved a lot where there's
there's third party platforms in the
sense that it enables outside businesses
to build. And then there's more first
party use of the install base, you know,
fundamental identity layer in your case
uh that you've created through a product
that lets you create a all sorts of
other things. How do you think about
that difference like opening up identity
as like an API to outside developers
versus owning the experience yourself?
So here's how I look at it. Um I think
there's again I like analogies and I
would look at American Express as a
vertically integrated financial service
company, right? They have the customer,
they have the merchants, they have the
bank. Certainly American Express I think
is some of the best experiences when you
uh lose your credit card or I had fraud
on mine yesterday. you send a new one,
the bills go right through because
they're vertically integrated. It's a
better customer experience. Um, I look
at Clear and think we're a vertically
integrated identity platform. So, we
have our members on the platform and
then we have different we have the
enrollment, we have the verification. We
have APIs and SDKs for our partners to
connect into them. We have real estate
in airports. We have awesome ambassadors
at airports. We have hardware. we have
software and so the opportunity to have
all those assets and be able to use them
in different ways uh I think is really
important and I would argue it's a
little bit open in that we are right
connecting for our partners and bringing
that member to a partner whether it be
Home Depot whether it be LinkedIn
whether it be a hospital either for the
workforce or the patient um but I like
us bringing our different assets like
some of our partners want hardware they
want someone to check in at the front.
Some of them, right, were really working
on e-gates and automated endto-end lanes
in real estate in our airports to drive
that end to end frictionless, more
secure experience. How could we use our
ambassadors and our concierge product?
So, I like having the assets being
vertically integrated and being able to
disagregate them. Um, and so that's how
we're looking at clear.
Maybe it'd be fun to break the story 15
years now into chapters and talk about
each chapter a little bit. I I now
everyone knows clear but like obviously
you bought it out of bankruptcy so
not everyone
we're getting there a lot of people
listening will know clear um
we welcome them to the platform
we'll welcome them all the the origin
stories are super interesting to me and
how these things get started so you were
a professional investor I remember the
first time you talked you said uh you
didn't want necessarily some of your IR
or something to be on your tombstone and
have that be the thing you were known
for
I didn't want to die and have people say
I pick good stocks that wasn't good
enough
it wasn't good enough so maybe talk
about that the the or the pure origin of
why you went searching for a business in
the first place, how you found this one,
what it's like to buy something out of
bankruptcy that first couple days.
First, so I will say in media's race,
bankruptcy is a completely surreal
experience. And I talked to a few uh
CEOs who I had invested with through the
years like Bobby Kodak or Martin
Franklin at Jordan and they said, you
know, bankruptcy is decided on the
courthouse steps and it's true. But I
definitely believe and I tell my kids
that, you know, life is a journey. And I
started off in risk arbitrage in 1994
when I graduated the University of
Michigan. I didn't even know what
proforma or EBIDA was, but I figured it
out real fast. And that was the uh M&A
period of aerospace and defense under
Secretary Les Aspen. And so I really got
to know the aerospace and defense
industry of which biometrics has been in
the defense industry for a long time. So
that was my first understanding of
biometrics. Also in the 90s we invested
in cable wireless and satellite
subscriptionbased businesses. Again we
were buying wireless spectrum in the
90s. Direct TV was really starting to
grow and Echoar cable companies.
Microsoft invested in Comcast with a
billion dollars in 1997. That was a
really big deal and they started to do
broadband. So I understood the power of
subscription-based businesses. Also did
bankruptcy when I was doing risk
arbitrage and uh so love a turnaround. I
like to say happiness is a low bar and
there's not a lot lower than bankruptcy.
And then you get into the 2000s with
after the.com bust and the turnarounds
that we saw in products that become
platforms and incredible companies like
Apple and Amazon and Priceeline that
were built. And so I had all that
experience which meant I believed right.
I saw the art of the possible. I'd also
seen giant failures like Tao and Enron
and WorldCom. So the thing that everyone
thought was going to be great and
wasn't. And so um ultimately had
invested in Laurel which got sold to
Loheed Martin which turned into L3 which
was a management buyout of Lheed it. It
stood for Lonza, Laenta and Leman. We
invested in that. Biometrics were there.
Lenta left and started L1 and he was
rolling up the biometrics industry and
we helped fund that. And so just a big
believer in biometrics on top of
everything else. It was used in in the
early 2000s in Brazil for voting for
Asia for financial services. So the
consumerization of biometrics was
happening outside the US whereas I had
only seen it in the defense area in the
US. I believed in the consumerization of
biometrics. So that is like the whole
journey put into clear shuts down on
June 22nd 2009. We went to cash at
Arians Capital in September 2008. A
little late, not too late. And then
investors said, "Well, when are you
gonna like, great, you're in cash, when
are you going to invest again?" We had
never been in cash or either 120%
invested, 200%, 80% long, short. We were
nothing. I had three little kids. I had
a one-year-old, a three-year-old, and a
5-year-old. And I was like, I don't know
if I want to do this anymore. I did done
it 247 for 15 years. I loved it. I
thought it was the greatest industry. I
met the greatest people. It's a front
row seat to business.
My late husband was in private equity at
Apollo and I was like that looks
awesome. Buying companies, controlling
cash flows, uh really able to um create
and build. And so I was like, I want to
buy something. I want to buy something
that makes the world a better place. Uh
my parents were in the government. I'm
originally from DC. 911, I was 29 at the
time, really changed me. I felt a
responsibility and a moral obligation to
help make this country a better place
and that we were lucky to be here and
that we were all responsible for it as
citizens. And so when I found Clear,
which L1, the company we had invested
in, had um been a subcontractor to for
the first goound, I was I was like
product that could become a platform
that could make our country safer, make
consumers lives easier. Um it was
biometrics which I believed in the
consumerization. Subscription-based
businesses are incredible. It was the
convergence of my entire professional
career. So we being uh myself, my
husband, uh some advisors uh at the time
my co-founder uh went into a room in a
law office and um we're bidding against
another group of people who were former
employees of Clear and we had money in
escrow and it was like you're reading
other people's documents trying to
understand what you should do. you have
a maximum number and we bid $6 million
in cash which I think was a little lower
than the existing bid but it was 100%
cash that night given to them and uh we
won and you're in this room going back
and forth with the documents and
strategy and talking um for like I don't
know 10 hours couldn't eat barely drank
and then you leave and it's almost like
bringing home a new baby you're like I
won
have this company now
shoot what do I do with it and uh We had
a doublesided five-page list of things
to do because it was all shut down and
the hardware was um in different storage
areas and there was 190,000 members who
were like where's my data and I didn't
get service and airports who were mad
and TSA who was mad and at some level
here ignorance might be bliss. I was
like we've got a great idea. We've got
some capital. We've built the business
model makes a tremendous amount of
sense. We've seen other leaders. We've
seen what to do and what not to do. Off
we go.
We'll call that the prologue. Before we
before we get to chapter one, I have a
couple questions from everything else
you said. The first is a little bit
abstract and away from clear
specifically, but you said uh that you
didn't know what proforma and IA were.
You've over and over again in your life
and career immersed yourself in new
areas and seem to learn quite quickly.
What can you say about uh that
experience and getting better at that
over and over again and not being afraid
of not knowing performing of the other
fields that you explore?
Um I'm a voracious reader. I think my
team knows I send them articles now from
somewhere between 3:00 a.m. to, you
know, midnight. I am enormously curious.
Um I there, you know, I grew up there
was no internet, but I read in my room
every night from Sports Illustrated to,
you know, books, magazines, newspapers.
And I I love learning like you I love
the question why and trying to get to
the bottom of it. And so um I also think
when you went to public school in
Maryland in the University of Michigan,
I was a political science major. I don't
know that people had, you know, enormous
expectations of me. I did of myself, my
parents did of me, my grandparents
certainly did who were immigrants. So I
had no fear of failure because there
wasn't, you know, too far down to go.
And so um you know my uncle who was an
investment banker lived in New York City
his his whole life and I would come here
from Maryland and he would take me
places and I just thought he was the
smartest, most interesting man. And and
then I love the movie Working Girl and
you know Let the River Run and the Coach
Briefcase and the coffee and the Wall
Street Journal. I'm like that's what I
wanted and so I just like that's what I
wanted. So that's what I was going to do
and I think I have blinders on when I'm
focused on something. So whether it be
proforma ibida or learning the hurandol
index when you're in risk arbitrage I
believe that everything x a few really
scientific things are learnable and now
with AI I'm like I'm not sure what's not
learnable. Um I actually just signed up
for an AI design class that I haven't
fully immersed myself in yet.
I just think life is about curiosity and
I'm a lifelong learner and I have no
fear of not getting it and no fear of
asking questions and
I was going to ask later but I'll ask it
now because it's relevant uh about how
your ancestors show up in your life. You
said something which was uh there was
high expectations across
multi-generations. Can you say a bit
more about about that? So my
grandfather, who was my idol, Hyman
Seidman, uh came to the US at 17 years
old in 1922. There's actually enormous
documentation about him coming here
because they he almost got sent back. Uh
his family stayed or most of his family
stayed in uh Eastern Europe and
ultimately uh died. He had one sibling
who went to Israel and one sibling who
was here. And so to come at 17 years
old, the bottom of a boat, the USS
Constantinople, Constantinople,
uh to work, to not speak the language,
to have no money, um to work in a
hardware store that he ultimately took
over, Sidman Hardware, which was across
from the Barkley Center. Um like that's
hard.
Everything else seems a lot easier when
you have that perspective.
And so he used to tell me to pull
yourself up by your bootstraps and like
keep on moving. And that's just very
empowering when you see what he'd been
through and lost a lot of family and was
optimistic, loved this country, had
enormous gratitude, positivity, joy,
fun, you know, never angry um a at sort
of what had happened to his family. And
so I believed in the art of the
possible. He put his family through
college. They were all successful, went
on to, you know, build families and and
my dad served in the military. My uncle
did like to do right by our country.
You know, I have gratitude and I have
belief in the art of the possible
because I've seen it.
You I think optimism versus pessimism is
such an interesting thing. Are you just
wired optimistic?
I am. Um, you know, one of my favorite
sayings that I keep on my cell phone, I
saw Shimone Perez speak right before he
died. Uh, and he said, "Optimists and
pessimists die the same way, but they
live very different lives." And I
thought that that was a very powerful
statement. Um, I don't know how if you
don't have optimism, if you don't have
hope,
what do you have?
Well, you needed it going into the Clear
thing with your six million bucks. I but
I'm curious about what was going on with
Clear prior like how did how did it
itself start before your involvement and
why did it ultimately fail the first
time?
So clear started as a response to 9/11
when uh Congress at the time stood up
TSA. It was a Republican le Congress.
They wanted public private partnerships.
If you look at, again going back to
curiosity, the founding of the
Department of Homeland Security, which I
think is one of the like largest and
fastest startups, uh I might have these
numbers slightly wrong, but it's like
250,000 total employees of the
Department of Homeland Security, which
has all these, you know, sub areas,
whether it be CBP, ICE, FEMA, TSA, those
are a lot of subsidiaries, if you will,
under one corporate umbrella. Uh, you
know, I think that Congress wanted to
make sure that there were public private
partnerships to drive innovation to
expedite the traveler experience. And so
they put this program together called
the registered traveler program. And so,
uh, TSA gave out a few licenses for the
registered traveler program for people
to, you know, try and see what they
could come up with in the world of
public private partnership and
innovation. uh Steve Bril had written a
book 912 uh which was I think the you
know day after 911 and he uh received
one of those licenses and started clear
and there were a few other companies who
started as well and ultimately he was
the most successful. He got into 16
airports. uh I think he raised about
hund00 million dollars of capital and
then had um some debt on top of that and
uh was building this concept of a
trusted traveler program a registered
traveler program with biometrics on a
smart card right so it's this onetoone
match and it had 190,000 customers then
I think two things maybe three things
happened one being the 2008 downturn
came so it started in 2003 but didn't
launch in Orlando to till 2005. Um, the
highest percentage of first-time
travelers in America go through the
Orlando airport. Strollers, balloons,
the whole thing. It creates a little bit
of a customer experience and security
challenge. So, that was the first place.
People are like, "Why'd you start in
Orlando?" I'm like, "Because they wanted
us."
He launched in 2005. The economic
downturn hit in 2008, which
significantly hit business travel. And
also uh he had debt coming due in 2009
uh in the middle of uh a lot of other
people being bankrupt and having debt
like GM and Chrysler. And so ultimately
the company shut down. I think that the
technology they were sort of before
their time from a cost on the tech side,
not to mention the economic downturn,
not to mention I think it was probably
hard to convince some airports that they
wanted biometrics. Um and uh and so it
shut down. It it went into bankruptcy
that
I know obviously Clear is in lots of
places beyond airports, but it's like
the visceral thing that we can all call
to to our minds and have probably used.
If if I think about the airport, it's
such an interesting physical supply
limitation. You know, you mentioned the
public private partnerships and the
certain number of licenses. Like it
would be I can't imagine what it would
be like to launch a clear competitor in
an airport. like it just um maybe it's
possible but there's not real estate
like there's certain number of lines and
whatever. What are the pros and cons of
having a business that has such a unique
physical supply bottleneck and both
barrier to entry but also barrier to
scale like if everyone signs up for it?
Is there like a disconomy of scale where
now now the clear line's longer than the
TSA line or something? It's such an
interesting business dynamic and I would
love you to just riff on it as many
angles as you can. Yeah, you know, I
didn't know going back to what I didn't
know lots. Uh I didn't know much about
airports when we started, you know,
clear in 2010. But you're right, there
are these really interesting structures.
There's 400 and change in the US, but at
the end of the day in the world of 8020,
right? 80% of the traffic goes through
sort of the top 60 80 airports in the
US. And they're um there are these
houses and within them are municipal
employees, airline employees, federal
employees with TSA or if there's custom
CBP, local police and fire departments
play a role here. And so you don't
necessarily have all the constituents
going in the same direction because
everybody has, you know, their own
stakeholders and uh their own
priorities. And so airports are a really
interesting place to do business and
they are capacity constrained both on
runways and physical real estate. So a
few things which is one we always viewed
clear as a force multiplier bringing
technology in that could help the
throughput and enhance the security not
to mention bringing badged and trained
employees into the building to help
partner. And we viewed ourselves as
Switzerland with the federal government
to help security, with the airlines to
help get their passengers through
happily and safely, with the airports
and the municipalities to help uh
enhance the experience to help drive
revenues because we pay them a
percentage of our revenues to create
jobs in cities that are great jobs. So
we viewed it as like a win-winwin and
that as the volume grew both we would
have technology like we just launched
our NV technology that's five times
faster but over time you could create
new opportunities if you will. So, for
instance, we invested in a company
called Landline, which is replacing
regional jets with buses and able to go
to the back of the um airport as opposed
to the front door. Because you're right,
you can't put millions of people through
the front door. And today, there's three
million people every day going through
airports. Our numbers are by 2030 you're
going to have four million, another
million people a day. And again, most of
them are coming through the major
buildings. You couldn't put them through
today. And so the question is what other
doors can you put them through? Can you
do off-site screening and bring them
through on buses? Can you create we're
trying to launch endtoend automated
lanes so you can have greater
throughput. Can you privatize the
physical screening uh opportunities and
so that you can have greater throughput
because oftentimes it's a staffing
issue. The equipment is there but
there's not enough people to staff it.
And airports are also super interesting
because you have these peaks. Like I if
you watch an airport, which I never
thought I would be doing, but I do,
right? It sort of the volume goes from
this to this to this. And so you have to
staff for peaks, which is really hard in
a staffing business. And so you do need
automation. You do need e-gates. You do
need off-site screening. You do need
people to come to the back as opposed to
through the front. So I think there's
all sorts of opportunities if you're
innovative and creative and partner
oriented to drive secure throughput with
a better customer experience at airports
and at any time you get you know a
little stuck and then you need to move
and try new things.
What is the NV tech like? What is it
specifically?
So the envy is our new face first
technology is now uh in all of our
airports. Well we start look we started
at smart cards. So going back to
chapters, our first six years were smart
cards until we went to the cloud. And
then we went to the cloud in 2016 at the
same time we partnered with Delta and
that was a really transformational
moment for clear both in terms of scale
and technology because you didn't need a
smart card. You could enroll and use it
immediately. But that was fingerprints
and eyes. You know to to us it's clear
that face is one of the winners, one of
the really important biometric winners.
And so we are face first with our NVs
which makes it you know five times
faster to verify and yeah you know uh
many people don't have good
fingerprints. Little known fact if
you're a teacher if you're working with
chalk um certain ethnicities don't have
great fingerprints. Um eyes can be a
little bit of a chicken dance even
today. So um face first is we call it
envy and enrollment and verification.
How do you think about this problem that
like with success? So there's there's
sort of two uh there's two things that
happen with scale. Like I had the
experience recently of using clear at
like an NBA arena and it was amazing
because there was this incredibly long
line to get in and then I just literally
walked right in. No no line at all. And
then the converse is so many people have
cleared an airport that there's been
times not often but there's been times
when I've been and had to skip the clear
line because it was literally longer
than the other lines. How do you think
about that problem maybe in airport
specifically that like you're a victim
of your own success when more people
have it because you don't control the
whole airport so you're subject to some
constraints that you can't change. I
think there's a really important point
which is um working with the government
can be hard and I would say that um the
last four years with the Biden
administration was really hard and in
fact that they put some policies in
place that really challenged our
throughput and the customer experience
and we're on the other side of that and
so when you can innovate to drive
throughput when you can leverage
technology at the speed that the private
sector is capable of. You can solve
bottlenecks with willing partners. Um we
did not have that in the Biden
administration. We certainly feel like
we have that in the Trump
administration. They definitively care
about making airports great. They
definitively care about throughput and
the customer experience and security and
believe in innovation in the private
sector and partnering together to do
that. So I would say uh and I've been
very public about it that our customer
experience degraded in 23 and part of 24
which caused throughput uh issues. It
wasn't because of volume. It was because
of um some policy decisions that were
put in place that impeded the customer.
What were those? I'm curious like what
what like the literal nitty-gritty of
it. What I can say is that they put in
some physical escorting uh policies so
that a clear employee who verified you
had a stand with you which created all
sorts of challenges. All of your team
members are standing in line. Also they
um wanted to recheck at a extremely high
level um identity documents and that
created kind of
defeats the purpose
all sorts of backups and I think that is
about building trusting relationships
with the public and private sector and
being able to communicate and I would
say there's a lot of great people at TSA
and at DHS who do believe in innovation
and public private partnerships. Um, but
as I like to say, debanking didn't just
happen in crypto. And it was a very
eyeopening experience to be on the other
end of that to not have uh transparent
and and partners who wanted to work
through things together, but instead
just wanted the government to do
everything. And that was very eye
opening. um and also I think made us
better, made us more innovative and I
think has positioned us to work really
well with an administration who sees
infrastructure
um as a major need here in the US and in
order to be competitive you shouldn't
have better travel experiences in
Singapore, Dubai, Tokyo and London than
you have here in the US when we have the
greatest tech companies. I was in
Singapore on Christmas. My kids were
like, "What are you doing?" I was taking
pictures of Egates and banks of Egates.
You go to Dubai, it's the same thing.
you absolutely should have endto-end
automation and there's so much you can
do to transform the travel experience.
So on a very personal and professional
level, uh watching our customer
experience degrade when I knew we could
do so much about it was horrifying and
not being able to say much about it
because they were pretty retaliatory was
also um you know pretty painful and I
think we're on the other side of that
and there's so much you can do to drive
throughput. The airport experience
should be and can be amazing. People
love travel in the US, quite frankly
around the world. And I actually give
huge credit to Airbnb. I think that they
transformed the travel industry by
creating infinite capacity. And I don't
think people have fully wrapped their
heads around that. Like it used to be
like, oh, I want to stay at the Marriott
and wherever and it's full, so I guess
I'll have to wait. There's always a room
somewhere for you if you want to go. And
I, you know, you see what's happening
with air traffic control. Like our
systems are rigid and a little bit
analog. They have to be invested in. We
have to partner. Travel is such an
important part of the economy and I
think it's also an incredible part of
families and experiences and growth and
learning and curiosity. I know for my
family it's been our best memories and
our time together feel really fortunate.
So, um, you know, we're hellbent on
driving innovation to make travel safer
and easier and also learned a lot from
our experiences in 23 and early 24 to
make sure that we move forward and not
backwards.
Can we go back to chapter one? You no
longer have your six million bucks. You
now have clear.
What was the process like of figuring
out what the business could or should
be? development of the business model,
go to market, like all the basic basic
stuff. What did you do and what did you
learn in that first chapter?
That is a great question. I wish I
documented more of it. Um, so number
one, you had to find where the inventory
was. Like let's go to the real basics.
It was like, where's the equipment? And
we would go to the San Francisco
airport. We were like, hey, where did
you put the clear equipment? And they
would take us to a storage facility and
it was like, you know, all the way back
there. One airport threw them away. I
was like, "You threw away the hardware
because in it we bought $10 million of
PPD. We about $10 million of hardware."
So, I was like, "For $6 million, we
bought a brand that we were too cheap to
change." People were like, "Why don't
you change it? It's really sullied." I
was like, "I don't know. I think it's
pretty good, and we don't have a lot of
money, so people know what it is, and
we're sticking with it." Ultimately, we
changed the logo. Um, and I love the
name. We bought 190,000 members,
biographic and biometric data. they had
to opt back in um to clear. Yes. Um they
had to come back to clear and we would
give them whatever months they had left.
I think in aggregate about 75% of them
did come back. Uh and then we bought $10
million of hardware. I also say we
bought a hard drive of what to do and
what not to do. Bankruptcy is really
interesting. You get the hard drives of
the company. So you were like looking at
their old documents and learning. But
first it was um finding the hardware
that was left because you were we were
going to reuse it. Number two was
actually rebuilding the software from
the ground up because we didn't buy
software. They didn't own their own
technology. So, we had a rebuilt and we
wanted to rebuild the software from the
ground up. Um, number three was finding
Orlando airport. We closed in April and
the Orlando airport wanted Clear to come
back and you need one person to go first
and they wanted to. So, we had to win
that. So, we wrote the RFP for the
Orlando airport. Other people did too.
Um, and then they protested our win. So,
you had to go down to the Orlando
airport and uh and share with the board
and the community why Clear would be
good and um serve them well. From a
marketing perspective, I wrote the
emails. I signed my name to them. I was
in customer service. So, we said clear
is coming back. It was to, you know,
90,000 people. Uh, we knew who they
were. One of the beauties of being an
identity company, you actually know your
customer. Um, and we told them we were
going to do right by them and make them
whole. And uh, we got some nasty emails
back. I was like, "Wow, people will
really write anything in email." So then
I would call them and I was like, "Hi,
I'm Karen from Clear. I got your email."
This one guy said, "Um, how blunt can I
be on this podcast?" Oh, blunt. He said,
"Uh, you know, my grandma had big balls
and you have bigger balls than my
grandma." And I was like, first of all,
interesting. Okay. So, I like called him
because like, you know, you're an owner
operator. And I was like, "Hey, it's
Karen from Clear. I got your email." And
he kind of shrunk. And I was like,
"Well, people will write anything in
emails cuz it's totally anonymous."
Going back to identity, we, you know,
told people we were relaunching at the
end of October and that they could come
back. We then hired um 20 people in
Orlando, 10 for each uh lane. And we
hired I had read setting the table is
amazing book. Danny Meyer, one of my
great heroes. And he became an investor
in Clear. And that was awesome. And uh
so we hired Union Square Hospitality um
I think it was called Hospitality
Quotient to do the training of our team
members in Orlando. So you know again
it's like okay I read the book. I like
that we want to be hospitality and
serviceoriented. I think it's missing in
the airports. We got to rebuild the
software. We got to find the equipment.
We got to hire some people. I don't even
remember how we hired them. I went down
to Orlando. I participated in the
training. I got to know all the people
at uh the Orlando airport. We
communicated with you're making it up as
you go along and then every day you're
like, "Fuck, didn't think of that." I
mean, that's just like what it is. And
so, I wish I had, you know, we have a
playbook now that we're in 59 airports
and more to go. But you fake it till you
make it. And then, you know, I would
just keep talking to people and I had
seen great operators and I would ask
them questions. Ed Breen is one of my
great heroes. We had invested in General
Instruments which then got sold to uh
Motorola and then he became the CEO of
Tao to turn it around after Dennis
Kuzlowski. So I would ask Ed lots of
questions and and uh these leaders were
so generous with their knowledge and
their experience. And so, you know,
every day you're just hacking at it. And
then I was at the on the floor of the
Orlando airport at 4:30 in the morning
when we launched and you know, you're
people would hug us and then you knew
you had something like when we were
rolling out the old kiosk from storage
and people were hugging us um that we
were bringing it back. That was the
greatest feeling because to know that it
meant something to people um that they
were rooting for your success. There's
plenty of people rooting against your
success, but that that gets you up every
morning to know that you can make a
difference in someone's life. That you
can security is job one. And then that
someone could have breakfast with their
family because they had a more planful
and less stressful trip at the airport.
I happen to be a neurotic flyer, so I'm
worried about turbulism turbulence and
terrorism and and I didn't like leaving
my kids. And so it's just like to know
you could change that for someone,
that's a giant win.
I'm curious to hear a little bit about
thinking versus action in your business
life. Like you you exude this intense
bias to action and
Oh, yes. That's one of our core values.
That's great. You I didn't know I didn't
know that. I promise I didn't know that
or look that up. Um but it sort of just
like uh comes off you. I'm curious when
you've needed to stop that if at all and
like retreat and think like I'm very
interested in this dichotomy of like uh
Brian Armstrong from Coinbase has this
great simple phrase which is that action
produces information. Um and so actually
you can learn faster through action than
through thinking you know is one way of
thinking about it. Um say a little bit
about action orientation versus um
stepping back to think. I have a very
busy mind. So, at some level, I'm always
thinking. Um, I guess being a girl, the
power of blowing your hair gives you
like 20 minutes to think.
It's like our shower.
Showers. Well, I have the shower plus
the haird dryer. Um, so I am always
thinking, my friends will laugh. I can
be a little spacey sometimes. Like, if
I'm driving, they're like I'm like, "Oh,
I didn't know how did we get here?" And,
you know, it's like my mind was 20
different places. Um,
yeah. Look, I think bias for action can
sometimes lead to impulsivity and I
think you need to guard against that. Um
I have consistently surrounded myself
with people uh including my late husband
who was like you got to stop like just
push pause on that for one second. Uh
slow your roll. Uh and I think that I
respond very well to that. But one of my
sayings is that every week is 2% of a
year. So when someone's like let's meet
on that in three weeks. I'm like, we're
going to wait 6% of the year to have
that conversation. That's insane, right?
I mean, and if you believe life is
short, and I definitely believe that, I
don't want to waste time. I love data. I
love information. Look, I think working
in the stock market makes you more
decisive. You're never going to have
perfect information. So, you got to put
together the mosaic. You have to
understand your thesis. You have to see
how that is, you know, weighing relative
to your thesis. And you need to move
out. Maybe you don't need to take an 8%
position. Maybe you want to start with a
2% position. Um, and you better do I
think that Wall Street gives you
incredible discipline. You better have
done your work before you need to do
your work. So when I head into a
meeting, I'm like, we should, you know,
know them better than they know
themselves. We should really understand
and have warmed this 10 ways from Sunday
because it's all about the preparation,
right? Kevin Durant, the basketball, all
the practice that he does before the
game. Uh, and so I do feel that I I
think a lot, probably too much. And so
that actually my bias for action is
because I've been I you know I'm playing
chess in my head all day long. Well,
what if? Well, what if? Well, what if?
And look, you can never you know, things
are always coming out of left field. And
but I am I've seen a lot of this in my a
lot of these scenarios in my head
before,
which I've actually never articulated
that. Uh but that's real. So I'm like,
well, what if we did that and what if we
did that and how would that and then you
have the data and you're like, well,
that would make that go up by 500 basis
points. That would have a negative
implication over time that could drive
my margin to this.
Um, but yeah, I like I like to move, you
know, I think Bezos talks about, right,
the the door and if it's a really big
decision,
Yeah. one or two doors.
Yeah. And so I I buy into that. Uh, and
like my middle daughter always tells me,
it's just not that deep, right? like can
you go back and make and change that? I
think if you raise your price and then
you have to lower your price, I don't
think that's good. I think sometimes
doing things that would make your
workforce feel not stable. So, you want
to be thoughtful. But one of our other
core values is embrace change. I think
the only thing constant is change. And
so, I'm really good with that. I
sometimes forget other people are not as
good with it. So, it's something I'm
trying to be more thoughtful of.
I love the 2%. I won't forget the 2%. It
is true. It's it's it's crazy.
Well, let's meet in a month. Really?
10%.
Um, back to like chapter two or
whatever. I'm curious how you originally
thought about the tradeoffs in the
business model itself and maybe just to
hear a little bit more about the
business model itself of margins and
pricing and product and I'm always
fascinated by the things left on the
cutting room floor that like maybe you
almost did but didn't do and you went
this way instead. So, in the early days
as you were thinking through how could
this be a big sustainable business and
I'm also curious to hear about like how
you financed all this like you started
with 6 million but everything else
you're doing costs a lot of money too.
Um what were you what were you working
through in those early days as you got
your arms around what the business model
should be? So I think a few things we
had built a model when we started right
you you know we come from finance we'd
built models garbage in garbage out um
but we did think that this could be a
good business if you own your own
technology
um if you own your own labor which the
other company didn't it had outsourced
the labor and the technology which
really impeded the margins but again
going back to the power of a
subscriptionbased business right and
cost per gross ad and LTB to CAC like
those things were in my blood and I
understood them deeply. So understanding
what we thought it would take to break
even from a subscriber basis looking at
every MSA understanding Denver and
Orlando and San Francisco and New York
how many you know what was the volume of
the airports what percentage of that
volume did you need or what percentage
volume of that population seemed
realistic you know we owned wireless
companies nexttel actually was one of
them and it was like what percentage of
the city is on nexttell and what do you
need to to break even so we had done I
like coming at things bottoms up and top
down and sideways, right? At different
ways. What percentage of we said that
the TAM was 35 to 40 million people that
traveled five or more times a year. What
percentage of those people did you think
you would have? Then looking at the
cities then, right? So all sorts of
different ways. So we thought that this
could be a good business model um if you
got to certain penetrations
um of certain cities.
All that being said, it took longer and
it was harder. Um I did not take a
salary for the first five years and uh
you know got paid in stock and to me
that was a privilege. Um
and we turned cash flow positive six and
a half years in and we had burnt through
$53 million of cash to get there. We
were very cheap, very efficient.
Airports are a really interesting place
because again think of it like
concentrated shopping malls. I didn't
think oh I wanted to start a business in
an airport. I thought I wanted to build
a secure identity platform, but airports
are the great place to start a business
because you have millions of people
coming through these buildings every day
that see your brand. Our ambassadors, I
would say a tipping point for us was
when we allowed our ambassadors to do
the selling for us. Um, the internet or,
you know, social media is a really noisy
place to try to get someone's attention
and certainly getting noisier. having an
ambassador who gets a commission so that
they can make more money and they're
awesome people say sir would you like to
learn about clear sir would you like to
be a clear member or you coming over and
saying it sometimes we put out candy
bowls we did different things to try to
like who doesn't want to mint when
they're traveling u or hand sanitizer in
the 20 2020 time frame uh and so it was
great ways to get the word out and to
educate and to have uh team members who
could make more money and to have people
bring technology to life, right?
Innovation is about bringing people what
they did not know they wanted. And
people don't Google like biometric
security at airports specifically, not
at the beginning. And so having people
explain the technology, explain the
privacy, that was crucial. And so um we
believed it to be a very efficient and
powerful business model. Um we run the
business for members bookings and free
cash flow. I have said that for 15
years.
Members bookings, free cash flow.
Members bookings, free cash flow. Free
cash flow is the ultimate measure of a
business as a girl who comes from Wall
Street.
Like a good hedge fun,
it ain't eyeballs. Uh and so that's how
we ran the business. and when we turned
positive in 2017. So we raised capital
in 2010 from myself uh the gentleman who
started it with me and some outside
investors mostly here in New York City
and Bill Miller who was uh a strategic
partner at Arians Capital and one of my
great mentors and partners and he was on
our board for the first few years and as
an early investor in Amazon. It was
certainly great to get his wisdom and
his advice. And then in 2012, we raised
some capital. Again, I think from those
same outside investors, really
individuals, went to Silicon Valley, I
came back with zero in 2012 and zero in
2015. Um, which was fine. One of the
guys said to me, I won't say the name of
the fund. He said, "What makes you think
not going to, but I do keep his picture
in my photos." He's no longer there, so
it's fine. Let your haters be your
motivators. Um, so he said to me, "What
makes you think you can be the CEO of
Clear?" And in my mind, I was like,
"Good question." Uh, but but I leaned
over the table and I said, "Because I am
a complete [__] animal."
So that was that meeting
and he still said no.
He still said no.
Wow.
He still said no. Look, I think that
it's, you know, we're creating a new
industry in identity, but even before
you get to identity, we started here in
2010. Pre-check started in 2011. People
thought that was going to kill us.
Little did they know we could integrate
and now we actually sell pre-check. Our
view was great. You want to start other
kinds of trusted traveler programs.
We're a great enrollment mechanism. This
is exactly what we do. And uh for the
past year we have been enrolling people
in precheck and it's a great partnership
and I think there's so much more to go
there. So then they thought precheck was
going to kill us. There's always
something else and it's like guys some
dead end
guys people love traveling. You need
innovation in airports. You need public
private partnerships and when you have
willing partners in the public sector
you can do great things together and if
you go through airports they don't look
materially different than the p you know
past 20 years and so such a huge
opportunity to be frictionless from home
to gate. What if you knew you had a
reserved parking spot or where the Uber
should drop you off and a concierge
could meet you and you went through an
automated end to end lane and then you
had your coffee waiting for you on the
other side or you knew you could get
into a lounge like Shanganger and then
you knew that uh you know that you were
on the flight and that it was two hours
late and Uber sent the car for you as
opposed to everyone doing this when they
land and what if you used it as a mobile
key. Those are all the things we're
doing like Yeah.
You said great investors. it was the
name of your firm is art and science.
It's qualitative, quantitative together.
Um, so many investors are trying to
analyze things when ultimately the
creation of new net new value can't be
analyzed ahead of time other than in
very broad strokes. You know, you're
betting on the airport or this you being
a complete [__] animal and the
airport being a great place to apply
that energy. Um, now having done it from
both angles being the investor and the
founder, builder, CEO, h how would you
invest differently than you did
prior to the experience?
I think about that and truth be told, I
have not bought a single stock since uh
we ended Arians because if I can't like
focus and do it, I'm not doing it.
Uh, and I own a lot of clear stock and
and you know have investments in other
places, but I'm focused here. Um I think
I would be such a better investor.
So okay, here we go.
Yeah.
Uh number one,
so we invested in Amazon. They announced
Prime and it went down. The stock went
down, right? And we were like, oh, you
know, you know that okay, what do we
like? And then the shipping and what are
the losses? And it is like let's start
with the TAM. Let's start with the total
addressable market of if you had Amazon
Prime and like let's start with the art
of the possible and if those people
signed up and if they were stickier and
if they did more so like what could that
be? What could the incremental margins
be? I would also spend I did analyze org
charts. I would spend a lot more time on
org charts and people and systems you
know like we are in the midst of
changing our billing system to stripe
and we are super excited about it and
the opportunity set there is important.
I remember every time someone had an SAP
transition like the stock blew up,
right? And so it's like understanding
the culture and the people and the
systems and the total addressable market
and their penetration and then all the
second derivatives of that and at any
time one metric can be a little wonky,
right? But that is the question is what
is your ultimate thesis and is that
derailing of it or is that just like
nothing is straight up and to the right
almost nothing. uh maybe open AI is
right now but like you know there's a
lot of girrations along the way and to
understand that those girrations are
part of business but also to understand
look you know we would go visit Kodak
and right ultimately under Kodak and
Kmart and lots of companies they can go
away I live with that paranoia every day
for 15 years right you can go away you
can become totally irrelevant so what
what are you doing what is your product
roadmap, what is your innovation
roadmap, when will you get there, what
will the impact behoo
and say where can we go? You know, those
are things that I think I did at a but
not with as long a term perspective as I
think was required and to really map out
the art of the possible and then
probability weight the getting there
like what can Amazon Prime be? what can
the iPhone be in the ecosystem of the
apps and then the economy that that's
going to create can't just be like yeah
they're creating an iPhone and they're
going to set it you know 10 10 million
or 10 billion it's like what can that be
and I think to really map that out and
then the impact on the margins is you
know gamechanging and allows a lot more
patience
does that boil down to uh imagination
about market and belief in leader like
are those the two things that uh you
would focus more on as a result of this
experience?
Yes. And and again I would focus on free
cash flow and optionality which we did
but and I think those two things create
that free cash flow and optionality like
look at Priceel line they bought
bookings and active those were
transformative acquisitions right but
you need the free cash flow or the
balance sheet to be able to do those
things and you need the management who
has that kind of foresight. So I also
think you got to be decently paranoid.
So I think you know I prefer management
teams that are humble um nose to the
grindstone.
The answer to this will be a lesson for
every business owner. What does
optimizing for free cash flow feel like
as a leader?
I used to tell our management teams when
I was an investor like you should just
lever up and buy back stock. I don't
know why you're not more lever. The
optimal capital structure is X. when you
run the business and you're responsible
for all the employees and you're wanting
to invest in the business or you know
leave cash on the balance sheet for
potential M&A or whatever levering up
doesn't necessarily feel like the great
thing. Um so free cash flow and the
optionality it creates allows you to
think more clearly. Like when COVID hit
that was a transformative time for
clear. We went uh we took $20 million
which at the time was our marketing
budget to zero on February 26th or 25th.
Um and we were we create we took our
salaries to zero and we created a leave
of absent plan for our ambassadors so
that when it really happened on March
12th uh we were prepared and pivoted to
creating health pass and connecting
people to their test information and
ultimately their vaccine information and
connecting those data packets to
professional sports leagues like the NHL
so they could have the Stanley Cup which
they've never missed in all of their
history or to open table and resi for
dinner reservations. Um, it allows you
to be offensive, not defensive. And that
is a massive mindset shift. I believe in
the growth mindset. And so to be
thinking offensively about what you're
going to build or what you could um, you
know, buy or what you it's just it's uh,
it's really freeing. I imagine being
very levered could be constraining
specifically in difficult times. And
again going back to embrace change, you
get tariffs, you've got, you know,
pandemics, you've got um financial
markets. It's it's incredibly freeing.
What are the sorts of things that you've
done that have most positively impacted
your free cash flow, your free cash flow
margins?
Um I think it's an output of the
business quite frankly. Uh you know, we
run the business efficiently. It's a
capital efficient business and we are
really thoughtful on resources. Uh I
think we continue to get better at that
like how do you drive efficiency? How
can AI impact member care or you know we
have a little sign like AI to impact
every work stream every day for everyone
whether it be legal or finance or HR
recruiting or member care or scheduling
or coding like it's always looking for
efficiencies and I guess I was the girl
who got all A's and a B and my dad would
say would you get the B in um and now so
it's like well okay how do I do better
and every day I do think we can do
better so how can we do better. How can
we rethink that? How can we drive a
better marketing campaign?
And I think when you're it's it's
everything everywhere. And so that that
and the subscriptionbased business model
with high incremental margins
generates strong free cash flow. And
we've invested some of that back into
our enterprise identity platform, which
is a here and now opportunity to reduce
fraud and prevent insider risk and drive
compliance and efficiency and automation
on the enterprise side.
It's just it's awesome.
What does Wall Street lease understand
about the business? What do you get the
least credit for in the price or
something like that?
Well, we've bought back um let's see, we
were I think we peaked at 155 million
shares. We're at 133 and change. So,
we've bought back a lot of stock. All
the stock that we went public with at
31, we bought back at a lower price if
you want to talk about arbitrage. Um so,
I think there's a lot they don't
understand. I don't think they
understand the opportunity in the travel
business. I think they think it's like a
zero sum game and that um we've long
known that biometrics were going to go
mainstream. That's been our view.
There's a TSA report from 2018 on their
biometric roadmap. We read it. Uh and so
understanding that we believe biometrics
are going to be everywhere. The question
is what kind of experience are you going
to build around biometrics? Biometrics
are a feature not a product. The product
is the experience. So, I think that
biometrics going mainstream is like new
news to people, not to us. Um, I don't
think that they believe necessarily in
our enterprise identity business. Um,
and that's fine. I appreciate Show Me
when when we were on the buy side, we
called that evidence-based investors.
When you show them the evidence, they
get excited. Um, and so in the meantime,
we buy back stock. We have a dividend
and um, we just keep building. So look,
I think in fairness and and I laugh a
little bit in that I was on the buy side
and I think I haven't done a great job u
telling the story or on the IR side and
I think we can do a better job of
creating consistent metrics um that we
can be measured on. So I think that you
know we have to execute and we have to
do a better job of um really sharing
um good metrics that people can measure
and value the business on.
What is like the bare case on biometrics
the extent to which there is one?
I think there's quite a few quite
frankly I think privacy and data
security are a big one right and so you
see uh some folks in in on Capitol Hill
negative on the government doing it. I
think there's certainly a concern about
big brother biometrics in lots of
countries from you know again Estonia is
a leading country on biometrics India
with Aadhar um you know Brazil with
voting China there's biometrics but I
think that that also has another side of
it which is concern about privacy
concern about big brother concern about
data security um so I think that's a big
one and I think again us being so
transparent about privacy and data
security and our ambassador
sharing um the story, us having a
privacy policy that is very transparent.
You can control your own data. You can
purge at any time has been really
important, but I think that that is a
big one. Um
I I think that's the biggest one quite
frankly, which is also why I like being
a private company doing it. But it, you
know, from some countries and our
history would say that it can go ary.
What is the biggest thing in between us
today and a future where my face just
does everything for me? Where I can pay
with my face and I can I can sort of opt
into not taking stuff out of my pockets
and just move through the world and get
what I want with my face. Like what?
I don't think a lot I don't think
there's a lot. I mean, look at your
iPhone or your Google phone, Samsung,
right? First, Touch ID started, I think,
in 15 or something of that nature.
Um, and then Face ID. So I don't think
there's a lot in between that. I think
it makes perfect sense. I think you need
trusted companies to do it. But I think
the level of fraud has gotten so high
whether it be financial fraud, right?
You look at peer-to-peer, who are you?
Who am I? You look at teleaalth. Who are
you? Who am I? And it's not just, you
know, a document is not an identity. An
ID is not an identity. You need total
identity integrity. You need identity
with depth. You need connecting you to
all the things that make you you. And
so, you know, I think as as this
anonymous online world rises, which
creates all sorts of problems, I think
as the world goes more digital, you
know, we just did this partnership with
Docu Sign, like of course pushing enter
is not a secure, you know, thing when
you're wiring a million dollars or
getting a title, you know, or deed like
that doesn't make sense. Your face
should be it. Uh, and so I I just think
that when it makes that much sense and
when it's that feasible and when you're
doing it in other areas, it's a here and
now moment. And I think as long as it's
opt-in, if you want to do it, if you
don't, you know, you do it the
oldfashioned way and that's a choice.
It's like my mom cash checks at the
grocery store for a really long time. I
still don't think she's used um an ATM
card. We're working on her. So, I I just
think it's it's a moment and I think
used appropriately and in a trusted way.
Look at crypto. How could you get locked
out of your account if you can't
remember, you know, your 12digit hash?
Like, these things just don't make
sense. And then you look at the
workforce side of the house and people
are coming in the front door with fake
credentials or credentials that aren't
theirs, real credentials because they
got it from the call center or, you
know, they did it through other scams.
You got to know who people are and what
they should have access to and you need
to make people's experience more
frictionless in so many different ways.
So I think the next five years will be
transformative.
I would love to talk about where the
business can expand to physically next
and is so airports I talked about the
NBA arena experience you know that I had
more recently. What is like currently
happening and where will that
proliferate in the coming you know
couple of years? So um enterprise
identity first of all I think there's a
lot more we can do in travel. So I think
going for an endto-end experience what
we call home to gate is the opportunity
whether it be a reserve parking spot or
your Uber whether it be the ambassador
and our new concierge program taking you
either to our automated lanes which
we're working on or ultimately to the
gate. I know when I had three little
kids and all the suitcases like all you
want is somebody to help you. Uh and so
putting together that journey is still
an opportunity in travel, creating
off-site screening, privatized
screening, lots of opportunities to
transform travel in stadiums and arenas.
With the World Cup coming in a year and
with the Olympics coming two years after
that, I think that there are some big
opportunities to enhance the experience
and enhance security in stadiums. We're
partnered with the Clippers where you
can use your face for age verification
to buy a beer. Steve Balmer did build
the arena of the future and I think
there's a lot to be learned from that.
But like why should you need anything
when you go into a stadium? You're a
guest and you should have a great guest
experience and you know there's long
lines to get a hot dog, long lines to
get a beer. You pass your driver's
license and your credit card down.
That's super private to have it come
back. Like none of that makes sense. And
so creating better and safer experiences
in sports stadiums ahead of the World
Cup, but certainly around the World Cup.
Uh we have this new capability to uh
read your passport and the echip. And so
that's both real ID compliant which is
we didn't even talk about real ID which
is you know a little bit of a hub out
there. And so uh both for domestic but
for international fans as well. We want
to be welcoming for all the fans who
want to come and create safer and easier
experiences. But then after that like I
think health care is an extraordinary
opportunity both for workforce and for
patients to create safer and easier more
compliant more efficient experiences at
check-in at trying to you know uh
recover your account and get the
information on digital health records.
You know I like to say in healthcare
that it was professional. until it
became personal when my husband was
diagnosed with cancer and trying to get
his health records. You had to go to the
fourth floor to get a CD ROM at Memorial
Sloanketering. You then brought the CD
ROM back to your office so you could
digitize it so that you could send those
scans to other hospitals whether it be
Hopkins in Baltimore or in Israel or
Japan or Italy. And it was so incredibly
hard. I thought this is crazy. This is
his data. This is our data. And it was
so hard to get on the portal if I lost
my password.
Maddening.
It's insanity. And once you've seen it,
you can't unsee it. So I think the
opportunity to transform health care,
you know, employees who, you know, it
takes minutes to log on a system because
there's different systems and they have
to do it multiple times a day. Those are
times that they could be helping their
patients. Not to mention, you look at
cyber attacks on healthcare data. Um, so
there's so many ways to transform the
workforce and the patient experience.
Uh, you know, medical bankruptcy is, you
know, a big problem because you don't
know what you have coverage for and you
don't know what you're going to be out
of pocket for. Uh, you know, it's crazy.
My husband passed away 20 months ago. I
still get bills and I'm like, such a bad
experience on so many fronts and it's 20
months later. So I know that our health
care system needs extraordinary help to
create safer and easier experiences. Um
and to connect it all, you think about
tellaalth, you think about rural areas,
you think about are you the doctor? Do
you have those certifications? You think
about temporary staffing. Like you just
keep going for the opportunity set for a
secure identity platform that is not a
point solution but can be used in
multiple ways in that industry. Um, and
it it's an industry that operates on
pretty slim margins. Clinical trials,
you know, I always said, I would love to
put my husband's data up there and you
find us versus I go find you. It is a
maddening experience to go through
nih.gov,
which has thousands of clinical trials,
to see which ones could apply to you,
only to find out that he had a procedure
or something that then meant it couldn't
apply to you. So the opportunity for
transformation for better outcomes in a
more costefficient way are here and now.
So those are just a few I could keep
going. It's identity is foundational
across so many industries. We want to
make sure clear we're not boiling the
ocean. So there's a few areas we're
really focused on right now. Um but I
think over time they continue to expand.
H how how were you able to lead
through
the experience with your husband and co
like how did you yeah how did you do it?
You know sometimes I ask myself the same
thing. Uh again, I think I have these
blinders on and I'm very focused on
what's in front of me and um you know
for co
you've seen you know you saw 911 right
like people are like well how could that
happen here you saw the financial
downturn of 2008 you see co it's like
you see challenges every few years going
back to embrace change you saw the dot
bust like every few years. It's
different. But it was just like this is
it. What are you doing about it? I don't
get sort of
wrapped up in the how could this be? I,
you know, I
it just is. And [__] happens in the
world that you would not expect on the
positive and the negative.
I believe that it can and I believe that
you need to be prepared. and I seem to
do best under uh pressure and stress,
which I should probably try to flip
that. Um, and so I am prepared for
crisis. I guess also working in the
stock market, it's like crisis is all,
you know, people, you know, they're
like, can you believe in the market's
down? And and I actually sent my son a
few weeks ago, he's 17, a list of stocks
that for the first time I thought were
interesting because I wanted to show him
the buy low, sell high, right? It was
down during the tariffs and everyone's
freaking out. I was like this is the
moment right um and it happens all the
time you know they only are happy when
the stock market goes up it's like
that's not that's not the rule so I
think you know co it was just head down
and have your priorities which is first
of all lead from the front take your
salary to zero right and put that money
in a fund for the people I think that
sets a tone from the first day that
we're we're going to make it through and
we're in we're here for you um and we're
also going to have to make some hard
decisions. So, communication key. Um, my
husband, that was a different kettle of
fish. Um, I'm the paranoid one who was
always like, "Is this lump? Do you think
this is cancer? Do you think this is
cancer?" And he was like, "Stop." And
then it was, but it wasn't me.
Um, you know, in the in the heat of the
moment,
it was fixing him, right? There's a 3%
chance of survival with pancreatic
cancer. So going back to blind optimism,
like why can't we be one of those 3%. We
can be 49 and a half years old,
incredibly healthy. Um, so there's that.
There's being there for your children,
which is your job, right? Like got to be
there for them. This isn't about you. So
I think I like helping other people. And
so you just blinders on. This is the
mission and we're going to tackle it and
failure is not an option.
We didn't win that one. Um, and then
it's okay. Well, how are we going to
make sure that other people with the
Brocka genetic mutation are aware of it?
How are like, how are we going to honor
Mark's spirit and his life? And how are
we going to make a difference in the
world? I send my kids off to school
every day with the saying, make the
world a better place. I think that
that's all of our jobs. And so, um,
really now fighting for genetic
screening and really wanting everyone to
be genetically screened. In Finland,
they screen umbilical cord blood for 75
cents when a child is born and tell them
their genetic situation when they're 21.
Like, that's smart. We should be doing
that here. Um, so I just I'm very
missionoriented.
Um,
I care about people deeply, the clear
people and especially my family. And so
I feel like you have to be a difference
maker and you got to lead from the front
and you just do.
Thanks for talking about it and telling
us about it. Um I'm fascinated to learn
more about genetic screening and and
it's probably something that you
mentioned before we started recording
that there's this strange like ignorance
is bliss tendency that we have around
our health. Um maybe you can say just
one degree more about what you've
learned about that and how we might
change it. Yeah, you know, in a world of
I I'm incredibly curious and um I was
not curious about the Brocka mutation. I
didn't know much about it besides I had
heard about it from an about Angelina
Jolie a while ago. Um and my husband's
brother was diagnosed with pancreatic
cancer in April of 2021 and it was the
first time we found out that he was broa
positive. So my husband was uh screened
and I remember he peakedked his head
into the study in June of 2021 and said
I'm broa positive and I was like okay
we're going to deal with this like so we
went and we had him you know tested for
we had him scanned for skin cancer and
we had a cat scan to make sure that you
know his organs to baseline it because
he was 49 and a half. His brother was
eight years older. It all came back good
in July 2021. Turns out they missed it.
Um, and he was diagnosed in January 2022
with stage four pancreatic cancer
that had metastasized to his liver. And
what we learned about the brocha
mutation at that point was that two and
were Ashkanazi Jews that two and a half%
of Ashkanazi Jews are Brocka positive.
That is one out of 40 people. That was a
shocking statistic to me. We had no
idea. And to know that if you're
genetically screened early, you can
monitor it. you can be on top of it.
There's all sorts of things you can do.
It uh significantly raises a woman's
chance of ovarian cancer and breast
cancer, uh skin cancer, pancreatic
cancer, and for men, prostate cancer.
Mark's dad had prostate cancer, you
know, 17 years ago, maybe more than
that, but nobody bothered to test him
for BA. And so our family is on a real
mission with our Warrior Mench
Foundation in honor of my husband and
his legacy um to get the word out on
genetic screening. We bought 2,000 kits
for our synagogue thinking if we just
give them to you, you'll go home. All
you have to do is spit
and send it in. Easy. Um and so we
bought 2,00300 were picked up uh for the
high holidays. And the rabbi who was a
dear friend of my husband's my husband
was chairman of our synagogue uh spoke
about it. We had little um flyers on
everybody's seat. I mean, what else are
you doing on the high holidays? You
could read it. Um I mean, you can also
pray. Uh and 320 or so have been turned
in. So only 25% of the tests that were
taken have been turned in. Of those 320
and change, seven of them are positive,
which means that 2 and a half% is
actually there. And of those seven that
were turned in, then somebody had their
sister tested and she was positive.
Somebody had their kids tested and they
were positive because you have a 50%
chance of passing on the Brocka mutation
if you have it. And so, you know, right
now I think the count is 10 or 11 people
who will be proactive in their health
screening and can hopefully avoid,
you know, uh, cancer or get it really
early, which is the name of the game.
Um, but for the thousand people who
didn't turn it in, we made a video,
including my son. I thought, well, if
they see an incredible kid without a
dad, they'll be motivated.
Our rabbi has spoken about it. But to
think that a thousand people took it,
$250,000 of, you know, capital that went
into it and that they don't want to know
after that two and a half% that means
that, you know, 25 people have it and
haven't done anything about it. That's
devastating. So really figuring out ways
that people can save their children,
save themselves, um early intervention.
I I think genetic screening is so
important not just for cancer but for
other things. I don't think ignorance is
bliss. I think people think it can't
happen to them. And I understand that
feeling. I used to look at people who
lost someone and be like, "Oh, that is
so sad. They lost someone." And now I my
kids and I laugh like that's us. People
look at us that way. Um,
and we don't want to be victims. We want
to be change makers.
I I have this question I did not expect
to ask. Um, what what is the most
powerful uh idea or ritual derived from
your religious tradition and faith?
I would say it is two things. Um, it is
the morning and night prayer that we do
with our kids that I thought um and it
was really Mark led the way on that. the
best way to sort of ground ourselves in
the morning and to help go to bed in the
evening. I would say the other thing is
Shabbat dinner, bringing people together
on Fridays for Shabbat. Um, when I grew
up it wasn't that much fun. It was like
the four of us at a table, but we have
lots of people and lots of fun and
flowing wine and we do high lows and act
of kindness. So, everyone goes around
the table and talks about the best part
of their week, the worst part of their
week, and something nice that they did.
Some people call it happy crappy. Um, so
you know that's been a great way to get
our kids to talk to share our own
vulnerabilities with each other. Um, and
it, you know, I will say
when my husband died, our friends all
created a sign up and everyone hosted a
Shabbat and it held my family up in a
really hard time.
Incredibly beautiful and powerful. Hard
to know where to go from there.
I know. Back to biometrics. Say back to
back to free cash flow. Even dog.
What do you got?
Pro for
the name of the guy at that VC fund.
Yeah,
maybe the right question is the power of
relationships in leadership. One of the
things that about you that interests me
most is this just incredible
energy that you bring to the situations
that you're in. and um you've now led
this business for a long time. You've
led a lot of people. You've led them
through really hard times. You've led
them through a lot of success. Maybe the
fun way to ask it is what you respect
most in other leaders. I'm sure you've
also spent time with, you know, so many
of the great, you've mentioned a lot of
them already. Um so many of the great
leaders. What do you most respect when
you see leadership in others?
I do love energy. It's it's what I'm
drawn to like positive
big daring energy. Um I love leaders who
also can take that energy, stay quiet in
a room and empower others to speak. So
like when you went to Amazon or when you
went to Apple back then there were other
incredible leaders who you know would
share their stories. Ron Johnson was
running the stores at Apple when he
spoke like he was the man. And so you
felt like, God, there's so many big
brains around the table. Uh the power of
a team. I love sports. I used to want to
be a sports reporter. I thought Brent
Musberger was all that. So I wor for the
Michigan Daily, but I never quite got to
football. I was more on like the club
soccer and volleyball. A team, the power
of a team, the joy of winning as a team,
the like I always am I marvel when
somebody screws up and they just help
each other up. They cheer each other on.
Um, I aspired to do that as a leader.
They're tough and they're dedicated. Um,
they're creative. They're nonconformist.
Those are the leaders that I like. And I
think if you look at Ed Breen and Jeff
Boyd and Bob Milad and Jeff Bezos and
Steve Jobs and a bunch of other leaders,
they're all very different. I don't
think there's a cookie cutter way uh to
be a leader, but I think it's
authenticity and humility and big
thinking and discipline and you know the
5 a.m. thing and I you know I just I
love it all and I love that each one is
different and what makes them tick.
I have a couple questions about company
building just like a retrospective on 15
years of doing this kind of categories.
What have you learned about hiring?
That I'm not as good as it at it as I
would like.
Oh, say more about that.
I assume historically that everyone
wants to win and that
wired like you.
Yeah. Like of course, aren't like And I
have three kids and I show up at the
field trip and I don't miss a soccer
game at a birthday party, but I'm also
sending emails at 2 a.m. So, of course
you can make it all happen
and like you want to, right? and you
just want to run and you're curious and
it's not just a job, it's a way of life.
And I'm often disappointed and I go in
with that bias and I don't ask the right
questions because I go in with this
positive bias that you know, you want to
live it and you want to do it and
customer says jump and you say how high
and I'm not right. Um, and that is
consistently disappointing to me and so
I'm working on that. I'm attracted to
people who have humble beginnings, who
have overcome adversity,
who don't fear failure, who want to be a
team player, who are straight shooter
and non-bureaucratic. Clear's the
biggest company I've ever worked at. Um,
and so, you know, again, hiring those
people,
great success, but I need to work on my
bias of everyone wants to do it my way.
And I would say also, I'm on the Home
Depot board and I have learned so much
about growing people internally from
Home Depot. I've learned great leaders.
I mean, incredible leaders, an
incredible company. They grow people
internally and in the most magnificent
way. They take talent development really
seriously. And so I've learned a lot
from that. And so we have great success
stories of clear of people who have been
here eight and 10 years on a 15-year-old
company started you know in one place
have had five different jobs and are
significant leaders at clear and so I
love those stories but people are
motivated by very different things and
you have to understand their motivation
and their incentives and uh then where
they fit in the organization. You don't
want everyone like me. Do you have a
theory as to why more people aren't
wired in uh this way about I don't know
how to describe it like a this is not a
drill type you know attitude towards
life. Do you have a theory as to like or
or like when were you always like this?
Did you like wake up or was there like a
moment or a precipitating thing like
I I know no other way. I don't this
you just don't get it why others are not
like this.
I don't get it. My kids don't get it.
happily. They're all sort of wired like
uh like me and Mark. And life is for the
living. I mean, um this is a great
country. I have a lot of gratitude. I
didn't start with much of anything. My
first job, my salary was $24,000 a year.
Um my sister was FedExing me cash, you
know, because I didn't have enough to uh
you know, pay my bills. So, I don't I
don't know any other way. Um, you know,
I used to watch the last lecture by
Randy Pouch and you know, he talks about
Tiger and Eeyore and one of my
anniversaries my husband bought me a
tiger stuffed animal and it's like
energy, positivity, be tiger. Who wants
to be around the WW? Yeah,
life is full of challenges. Life is full
of disappointments.
I've experienced more than my fair share
and I have gratitude and optimism. And I
also think when you see the other side,
you know this is it. So live your best
life and make a difference for others
and pay it forward. Be a change maker.
It's I don't know any other way and I
don't understand others who don't.
Nothing gets me more energized than
someone who cares and loves their the
thing they're building so deeply. Uh
James Dyson just was making the rounds
on the internet for like an 8 minute
keynote. He's 70 or 80 years old.
There's something beautiful about the
marketing advantage that comes just from
that, just from the passion that that
just oozes off these people creating
these things. And I get that from you.
And so that's part of the answer is just
like care deeply and love the thing that
you're building. Um, what else have you
learned about marketing? Since you're
running a consumer subscription
business, you have to reach a lot of
people. What are the good and bad
lessons that you've learned about what
to do and not to do in marketing?
You know, it's interesting. I would say
the same thing for genetic testing that
your biggest competitor is inertia.
Yeah.
Getting people to
to do anything.
Move is hard. Like again, the test was
free. All you have to do is spit.
Like not hard. Yeah.
So hard. Yeah. Save your life. Save your
kids' life.
Really freaking hard.
So inertia is really a tough thing to
overcome. So trying to get incent people
to move and to do things takes a little
bit of time. You got to cut through the
noise. I do think having humans bring it
to life like we did uh with our
ambassadors,
but um word of mouth is powerful, but
also it's a fragile world we live in. So
a fund manager used to say it's the
elevator, it's the staircase up and the
elevator down, right? And we've
experienced that, right? somebody tweets
something negative, it's one person's
opinion in a moment in time goes viral
and that's the story. So, um it's
fragile. I think I could do a better job
quite frankly. I think I was saying
before on the uh investor front of
sharing our story and telling our story
and humanizing our story. Um, I
certainly think we have opportunities on
that, but
it is hard
and it is fragile.
And I also think you live in a consumer
world of what have you done for me
lately? It's like, you know, I used to
say with Nike, they they changed the
game like there used to be one sneaker
every I don't know year and then they
started speeding up, you know,
innovation and it was like what's the
new sneaker? Consumers want to be
surprised and delighted
all the time
often. Yeah. You know, it's like what
have you done for me lately? And so
living in that world, you have to be
launching features and products. You
have to have an accelerated product
roadmap. You have to talk about it. I
think Uber and Airbnb have done a really
good job of talking at sort of having
two launch points a year to talk about
their products and innovation. Uh we
just sort of put it out there. Somebody
was saying the other day like the
heavenly bed that I think the Weston
did, right? They did some event in Time
Square and it was a big deal. They said,
"We have better beds in some of our of
hotels, but we didn't tell anybody."
Right. You've got to capture people's
attention and you've got to surprise and
delight them and you also have to
apologize when you do wrong and make it
right.
Anything you've learned about investors
that's interesting to you being a
company rather than a colleague?
Sometimes I'm surprised at the lack of
big picture questions.
um really like we're right here. And I'm
like, well, you know, the long term is
made up of a bunch of near-terms, but I
feel like you would want to understand
the long term to understand how the
near-term fits into it. Uh there's a
lack of questions on free cash flow and
how we spend the free cash flow. Um I
don't even know that one looks at the
cash on the balance sheet. You know,
people tell me that I wouldn't
understand how people invest today
because there's all these pods and
quants and that wasn't there when I left
15 years ago. So, I was a valueoriented
investor, which means different
businesses have different return and
growth characteristics and should be
valued accordingly. That's how I looked
at it. So, I thought Apple when we
bought it for $14 with I think $9 a
share of cash on the balance sheet was a
value stock. Um, and the street thought
they could earn 60 cents and I thought
they could earn a dollar and then from
there here's where we go. Apparently,
that doesn't happen as much. So, but I
still think that long-term valueoriented
investing is the thing that yields the
greatest fruit. I had the um pleasure of
sitting with um Charlie Munger uh two
years ago in his backyard and like he's
mesmerizing, right? And I believe that
that is how you create long-term value.
What what most stood out from that day,
what did he say that most
I mean probably the fact that he still
lives in that house. Yeah.
Um and he was just in his backyard. Um
his grandchild was in the house.
uh the stories that he would tell, the
crispness of his mind, his humor and his
humility. Uh for someone with that kind
of storied success, uh he signed his
almanac. Um I I think it was his
humility and his curiosity like tell me
about your company, right? Tell me about
what you think biometrics can do. What
can the margins be? What's the you know
total market? Could it go global? He was
just grounded in basics. Um, and he was
funny.
I felt lucky.
I guess I want to ask the same question.
Two more questions for you. The first
is, uh, tell us about your company.
Where, where could this go? Like, if you
really put your dreamer hat on, what
happens in the next 10 years for and
because of Clear?
I think the world is safer and more
frictionless for consumers and for
enterprises. Uh I think that we should
have tripledigit uh members on the
platform using it for various use cases.
That contextual identity is really
powerful and identity with depth, what
we call total identity integrity is
unlocking all sorts of experiences and
that you could actually leave your home
with nothing, not even a phone, and be
able to really transact in the world.
And that that makes uh companies more
compliant. It makes cost more efficient.
It drives automation. It reduces stress.
It delights people. And everyone is more
productive. I think so much of what we
have in this world is because we don't
trust each other. I think identity is
about building trust physically and
digitally. So um both in the US and
outside the US for clear.
What part of the next 10 years for you
personally gets you the most excited?
Like you're going to be leading from the
front. Which aspect is the most
energizing?
Making Clear's vision a reality with
awesome team members. And so we're
spending a lot of time on on enterprise
leadership and one team, one dream. And
that is very energizing working with
really smart, dedicated, motivated, high
integrity, creative people who all come
together with different skill sets. I
think that's awesome. Um, and then I get
both excited on the art of the possible
with travel because I think travel is
going to continue to boom and we are
really going to start to unlock
innovation to transform it. And on
enterprise identity, you know, I think
the way you apply for a job and then
onboard for a job and then reset your
password and get onto your computer and
transact is going to be transformed. And
I think that that is a really important
need in a world where cyber security
challenges have risen significantly. So
I get excited about the people that I'm
doing it with. Um and the fact that then
I can be open to doing other things. I
don't have to be sending the emails and
uh talking to the guy about his
grandmother. Uh I can I can do more.
I I thought of one more. What is
happening in the world in the next
couple of years that most opens us up to
innovation that entrepreneurs could take
advantage of and make us better as a
country?
I think the World Cup is a real forcing
function for our country and it's only
one year away. I think you know it was
in Doha last time uh and in the middle
Middle East. I think the opportunity to
bring it to the cities in the US, major
cities in the US, LA, New York, Atlanta,
Miami, um is huge and that creates a
real need in travel. It creates a real
need in sports stadiums and ticketing uh
to make experiences safer and easier. I
think we want to be a showcase for the
world on what we can do, how we can
entertain, how we can drive security for
the World Cup. Then two years later,
it's the Olympics in LA, which just had
these incredible fires. And so, how we
drive mobility and security and
hospitality in LA for the Olympics, I do
not think is any easy feat. I think it
will require real leadership and
innovation. And I think those are
forcing functions. You know, you need
forcing functions to galvanize people
say we got to make it by this date. Not
to mention the 250th birthday of the
United States, which comes at the same
time. And I I think that we have not
moved fast enough on innovation in this
country. And I think that we need
reasons and pushes to move faster to
drive private sector innovation and
private sector capital. I think it
aligns with the needs right now. And I
think that those will really create
opportunities for great companies.
I think you're right. I think we're
lucky to have people like you driving
this innovation. And I find you to be
just like a total force of nature. And
this is a total blast and a privilege.
When I do these, I ask everyone the same
traditional closing question. What is
the kindest thing that anyone's ever
done for you?
Probably the letters that my husband
left me with.
Beautiful.
Thank you so much for your time.
Thank you.